---
layout: post
title:  "A Blog Post about Blogging"
date:   2020-12-20
categories: jekyll blog blogging
---

# Blogging

From 2011-2014, I had time on my hands and decided to take up photography. I liked
the look of High Dynamic Range (HDR), and nature in general.

As I had time on my hands, I also took some solo vacations to Spain, Canada, and some more local places. 

Since the hobby was about photography, I didn't want to put a while lot of thought into blogging itself. I started a Wordpress site at wordpress.com and
started posting pictures. Eventually, I registered the domain 
wwww.byzantinegeek.com and signed up with a hosting service. Wordpress was an
easy way to start and remains a good tool for beginners.

# Blogging in 2020

There have always been blogging options: handcrafted website, Wordpress, Drupal, 
Google sites, anything with the designation Cotent Management System (CMS).

What are technical folks using for blogging these days? Wordpress is nice, but there are ads, and let's face it: security concerns. Most CMS systems are 
feature rich, but require a vigilant administrator to prevent abuse and security 
concerns. Also, public blogs attract a lot of spam.

Looking at the landscape, it looks like a lot of technical blog content is 
being published on 
<a href="https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/working-with-github-pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll"> 
Github pages<a>. 

Github pages allow you to maintain a static website, hosted for free on 
Github. It is relatively easy. You can blog in 
<a href="https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/">
markdown</a>, which is a lightweight language which is certainly a standard 
for a lot of documentation. There are also authoring tools for markdown. 

# Maintaining a Blog in AWS

Of course, we can run Wordpress in AWS and there are some easy setups. 
Likewise, there are some easy setups for Drupal and other CMS systems.

Again, these would require vigilant administration if they are made public.
The notion of a static website like github pages in AWS is appealing. In fact,
since AWS S3 buckets can be made public, this will make a good learning exercise. 
I can generate a static website and make it public in an S3 bucket.

# Jekyll Static Website Generator

Github pages are created by <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll<a>, 
a static website generator. Jekyll can be run locally as well. You can author
content and generate the website locally. You can then upload it to your web 
server (including an S3 bucket).

# Learning exercise

2. Generate a static website
1. Check the website source into github for safe-keeping
2. Get a start on C4 documentation by documenting the website
3. Move it to an S3 bucket
4. Make the bucket public
5. Wire it to my domain

I will make individual posts about the various steps as I venture into them. If 
you want to go through a similar exercise, you don't really need your own domain,
you can still generate a blog into an S3 bucket.